I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2142$90 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'09'27
No. 2142/90 - FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  27, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L.D.B 17/2014
FACTORIES   ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER  128)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 of the Factories Ordinance
(Chapter 128) read with Section 3 of the aforesaid Ordinance and approved by Parliament.
RA VINDARA S AMARAWEERA,
Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.
Colombo.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (Registration of Factories and Approval of Factory Buildings)
Regulations No. 1 of 2019.
2. (1) No person shall be the owner or occupier of any factory unless such factory is registered in accordance
with the provisions of these regulations.
(2) No person shall commence -
(a) the construction of a factory building on any site ; or
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G   31135— 20 (09/2019)
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
2A
(b) the making of any extension or alternation to any factory building ; or
(c) the conversion of any other building into a factory building, unless the plans for such construction,
extension or conversion, as the case may be, has been approved by the Chief Factory Inspecting
Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be.
3. Every application for the registration of  a factory, the approval of factory buildings and sites, the approval of
any extension or alternation to any factory building or the approval of the conversion of any other building into a factory
building shall be made of the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case
may be, substantially in the Form set out in Schedule I hereto along with the fee specified in Schedule II hereto.
4 (1) Upon receipt of an application for the registration of a factory under regulation 3, the Chief Factory
Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, if he is satisfied that such factory is
in accordance with the requirements, shall register such factory in a Register maintained for such purpose and issue of
Certificate of Registration substantially in the Form set out in Schedule III hereto.
(2) Upon receipt of an application for approval of the factory building and the site, the approval of extension
or alternation to any factory building or the approval of the conversion of any other building into a factory building under
regulation 3, the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, if he
is satisfied that such factory buildings and sites, extension, alternation or conversion is in accordance with the requirements,
shall grant the approval to such factory buildings and sites, extension, alternation or conversion and record such approval
in a Register maintained for such purpose.
5. (1) Where any changes are effected to the nature of work carried out in a factory already registered under
these regulations or any structural changes are effected to a building of a factory already registered under these regulations,
the owner or occupier of such factory shall apply for re-registration of such factory within a period of six months from
such change.
(2) The preceding provisions of these regulations relating to registration of a factory shall mutatis mutandis
apply to any re-registration under paragraph (1) of this regulation.
6. (1) The Register of factories maintained under paragraph (1) of regulation 4 may be amended by the Chief
Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer as the case may be, on an application made to him
in that behalf by the owner or occupier of such factory specifying the nature of the amendment and the reasons therefor.
(2) Where any changes are effected to the Certificate of Registration, it shall be the duty of the owner or the
occupier of the factory to inform forthwith to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting
Engineer, as the case may be, within on month from the date of such change. Any unauthorized alterations effected to the
Certificate of Registration shall render such Certificate invalid. The owner or occupier is responsible for any unauthorized
alternation of the Certificate.
7. (1) Every application under paragraph (1) of regulation 4 or regulation 5 shall be accompanied by the
following :-
(a) A flow chart of the manufacturing process together with a brief description thereof ;
(b) plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing -
(i) the site of the factory and immediate surroundings thereof, including the adjacent buildings and
other structures, roads and drains ;
(ii) the plan elevation and necessary cross sections of various adjacent buildings indicating all
relevant details relating to natural lighting and ventilation ; and
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
3A
(iii) the layout of plant and machinery indicating all parts thereof, with directions and exits in case
of fire or emergency ;
(c) such other particulars as required by the Ordinance.
(2) The Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, on
being satisfied that the requirements as specified in the Factories Ordinance have been complied with, shall, subject to
such conditions as he may specify, approve the application referred to in paragraph (1) and return to the applicant a copy
of plan approved. Where he is not satisfied that the requirements as specified in the Factories Ordinance have been
complied with, he may call for such other particulars or he may refuse the application giving the reasons therefor.
8. (1) The owner or occupier of any factory which is registered and in operation before the date of coming into
operation of these regulations shall, not later than six months from the date of operation of these regulations apply for re-
registration and approval for building plans.
(2) The owner or occupier of a factory which is already in operation and not registered on the day on which
these regulations come into operation shall register such factory within a period of six-months from the date of coming
into operation of these regulations.
9. (1) The Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 4 of  these regulations shall be valid for a period of
three years from the date of issue of such Certificate. Every application for renewal of a Certificate of registration shall
be made to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or to the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be,
substantially in the Form set out in the Schedule I hereto along with the fee specified in Schedule II hereto six months
prior to the expiry of the existing Certificate of Registration.
(2) Upon receipt of an application for renewal under paragraph (1) of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or
the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, if he is satisfied that such factory is in accordance with the
requirements, shall renew such Certificate of Registration for another period of three years commencing from the date of
such renewal.
10. Any owner or occupier who makes an application for Registration of a factory or renewal of Certificate of
Registration issued under these regulations, after the due date shall be charged an additional fee of five per centum of the fee
as specified in Schedule II hereto.
11. Any person who contravenes the Provision of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
4A
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE   I
APPLICATION   FOR   REGISTRATION,   RE-REGISTRATION   OR   APPROV AL   OF   FACTORY
BUILDINGS   AND   SITES,   EXTENSION   TO   FACTORY   BUILDINGS,   THE CONVERSION   OF
OTHER BUILDINGS   INTO   FACTORY   BUILDINGS   OR   THE   RENEWAL   OF   THE   CERTIFICATE
OF REGISTRATION   OF   A   FACTORY
Particulars of the factory to be registered
1. Name and address of Factory
Telephone No./Nos. : Fax :
E-mail :
2. Name and address of the owner/occupier :
Business Registration Certificate No./Company Reg. No. & Date :
Telephone Nos. : Fax :
E-mail :
3. Location of Factory :
Parliamentary electorate  :
Administrative District :
Local authority area :
Divisional Secretary area/Grama Seva  Niladhari Division :
Police Division :
4. Whether the application is for registration or re-registration or approval of factory buildings and sites, the
approval of extension to factory buildings or the approval of the conversion of other buildings into factory
buildings or the renewal of the Certificate of registration of a factory.
5. Details of Documents submitted
(i) Site plan (iv) Sketch showing access roads to the Factory
(ii) Building plan (v) Documents related to ownership or lease agreement
(iii) Production layout plan (vi) Any other Documents
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
5A
6. Nature of work done in Factory :
Be supported by process chart indicating raw material, products and nature of work.
7. Details of Plants installed or to be installed :
8. Type of power used in factory :
(e. g. steam, fuel-oil, gas, water or electricity)
Total power used (H. P. or K. W.) :
9. Maximum No. of persons : Males :
employed or intended to be Females :
employed in factory Young Persons :
(14 to 18 yrs of age)
10. Working hours of the Factory (whether on shift basis)
11. Date of commencement/intended date of commencement of work in Factory :
Signature of owner/occupier and
seal
Date :.....................................
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
6A
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE    II
A-FEES  FOR   REGISTRATION   OF   FACTORIES
No. of employees Fee for registration Fee for re-registration
of a factory of a factory
1-25 Rs. 1,000 Rs. 1,000
26-125 Rs. 3,000 Rs. 3,000
126-500 Rs. 5,000 Rs. 5,000
above 500 Rs. 10,000 Rs. 10,000
B-FREE   FOR   APPROV AL   OF   FACTORY   BUILDINGS   AND   SITES,   THE   APPROV AL   OF
EXTENSION   TO   FACTORY   BUILDINGS   OR   THE   APPROV AL   OF   THE   CONVERSION   OF
OTHER   BUILDINGS   INTO   FACTORY   BUILDINGS
Floor area of the factory (m 2) Free for approval of factory buildings and sites,
the approval of extension to factory buildings or
the approval of the conversion of other buildings
into factory buildings
Upto 100 Rs. 1,000
101-200 Rs. 2,000
201-300 Rs. 3,000
301-500 Rs. 5,000
More than 500 Rs. 10,000
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
7A
CERTIFICATE   OF   REGISTRATION   UNDER   THE   FACTORIES   ORDINANCE
Registration No./re-registration No. :
1. Name and address of Factory :
Business Registration Certificate No./Company Reg. No. and date :
Telephone No. :
2. Name and address of the Owner/Occupier :
Telephone Nos. :
3. Situation of the Factory :
Province :
District :
Town or village :
Divisional Secretariat :
Electorate :
4. Nature of work done in Factory :
5. Maximum No. of persons : Males :
employed Females :
Young persons
(14 to 18 yrs of age)
6. V alidity Period of the Certificate :
Date of issue :
Date of Expiry :
This Certificate of Registration is issued subject to the provisions of the Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and the
regulations made thereunder.
Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer
/District Factory Inspecting Engineer
Seal.
Date :
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Note : Any change in the above particulars must be notified in the prescribed application within one month. It is an offence
to make any unauthorized alternation to the contents of this Certificate.
10 - 491/1
(Regulation 4)
SCHEDULE    III
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
8A
L.D.B 17/2014
FACTORIES   ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER  128)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 of the Factories Ordinance
(Chapter 128) read with Section 34 of the aforesaid Ordinance and approved by Parliament.
RA VINDARA S AMARAWEERA,
Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.
Colombo.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (Registration of Steam Boilers) Regulations No. 2 of 2019.
2. No owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to use any steam boiler in the factory unless a Certificate of
Registration in respect of such steam boiler is issued by the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory
Inspecting Engineer :
Provided however, any steam boiler which is in use in a factory on the date on which these regulations come into
operation shall be registered under these regulations within a period of six months from the date on which these regulations
come into operation.
3. Every application for the registration of any steam boiler as required by the Factories Ordinance (Chapter
128) shall be made to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer substantially in
the Form set out in Schedule I hereto along with the fee specified in the Schedule II hereto.
4. Upon receipt of an application under regulation 3, the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory
Inspecting Engineer after examination of such steam boiler is satisfied that such steam boiler is in sound condition, shall
issue a Cetificate of Registation substantially in the Form set out in Schedule III hereto.
5. (1) Where the ownership of any steam boiler is transferred to another person, it shall be the duty of the owner
of such steam boiler to inform forthwith to the Cheif Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting
Engineer of the transfer of such ownership and the details of the new owner of such steam boiler.
(2) The preceding provisions relating to the registration of any steam boiler shall mutatis mutandis apply to
the new owner of the steam boiler.
6. No person other than the Chief  Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer shall
have the authority to add, delete, amend or alter any entry made in the Certificate of Registration.
7. The owner or occupier of a factory shall cause the steam boiler to be stamped with the following
information :-
(a) name and number of the manufacturer ;
(b) model and the serial number of the boiler ;
(c) year of manufacture ;
(d) steaming capacity per hour in lbs or Kgs. ;
(e) maximum permissible working pressure in lbs/in2 or Kg/cm2
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
9A
8. Owner or occupier of any steam boiler shall keep in his possession and made available for inspection when
required by the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or any Officer acting on his behalf, particulars of manufacturer’s
certificate, showing all technical specifications used by the manufacturer and such other documents containing all the
records, designs, dimensions  and test reports in accordance with the stamping on the boiler.
9. (1) Any Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 4 of these regulations shall be valid for a period of
three years from the date of issue of such Certificate of Registration.
(2) Three months prior to the expiry of the existing Certificate of Registration an application for renewal of
such Certificate of Registration shall be made substantially in the Form set out in Schedule I hereto along with the fee
specified in Schedule II hereto.
(3) Upon the receipt of an application for renewal under paragraph (2), the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer,
after examination of such Steam boiler is satisfied that such Steam boiler is in sound condition, shall renew the Certificate
of Registration.
10. Every owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to maintain a record book referred to as the “Maintenance
Record Book” substantially in the Form set out in Schedule IV hereto.
11. The Certificate of Registration and the Maintenance Record Book relating to any steam boiler shall be kept
at the premises where such steam boiler is used and shall be made readily available for inspection, to the Chief Factory
Inspecting Engineer or any officer on his behalf for examination on request.
12. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
10A
(Regulations 3, 5 and 9)
SCHEDULE   I
APPLICATION   FORM   FOR   THE REGISTRATION   OR   REGISTRATION   ON   TRANSFER   OR
RENEWAL   OF   REGISTRATION   OF   STEAM   BOILERS
1. Full name and address of owner :-
2. Name and address of owner or occupier of the factory :-
3. Name and address of the premises where the steam boiler is installed :
4. Whether applied for
a. Registration of Steam boiler ;
b. Renewal of Registration of Steam boiler ;
c. Registration for Steam boiler on transfer.
5. Date of purchase of the steam boiler and the name of the person from whom it was purchased :-
The name of the previous owner if any of the steam boiler :-
a) Is the steam boiler a new one or a used one :-
b) Date of first commencement of its operation and where it was installed (if known) :-
c) Date of commencing or intended date of commencing of operation in the present premises :-
6. The purpose for which steam is generated :-
7. Name of the manufacturer :-
8. Manufacturing code :-
9. Year of manufacturer :-
10. Type of Steam boiler (e. g. water tube, fire tube, etc.):-
11. Steaming capacity (per hour) :-
12. Manufacturer’s test pressure and the type of test (attach details if any) :-
13. Maximum permissible working pressure :-
14. Mode of construction (e. g. welded, reverted, etc.) :-
15. Type of fuel used :-
16. Location of the boiler (attached a sketch) :-
17. Any other information :
I, .................................................................................................do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by
me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Signature of Owner/occupier.
Date :
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
11A
For official use only
01. Application No. :- 02. Date of receipt of application :-
03. Application fees levied :- 04. Recommendation of DFIE/FIE
05. Registration No. assigned by C. F. I. E.
The above application for registration is approved/not approved (if not approved indicate reasons).
06. Validity Period of approval from ....................to..........................
Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting Engineer
Seal.
Date :....................................................
Reasons for not approval
Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting Engineer
Seal.
Date  :....................................................
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
12A
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE II
REGISTRATION   FEES   OF   STEAM   BOILERS
Class S teaming capacity Registration fee Fee for renewal Registration fee
(Kg/hour) of boiler of new boiler of r egistration of for boiler
boiler on transfer
3 Upto 1000 Rs. 3,000 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 2,000
2 Above 1000 to 3000 Rs. 5,000 Rs. 3,000 Rs. 4,000
1 Above 3000 Rs. 7,000 Rs. 6,000 Rs. 5,000
(Regulation 4)
SCHEDULE  III
CERTIFICATE   OF   REGISTRATION
Book No. :
Government of Sri Lanka
Certificate of Registration of Boilers
Department of Labour, Sri Lanka
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
13A
(Page 1)
PART - I   GENERAL
1. Registration No. :-
2. Maker or manufacturer’s name :-
3. Maker’s No. :-
4. Year of Manufacturer :-
5. Type and approximate dimensions :-
6. Steaming capacity per hour :-
7. Maximum Permissible working pressure :-
8. Type of Fuel :-
9. (a) Manufacturer’s test pressure :-
(b) Material of construction :-
(c) Manufacturer’s Code :-
10. Remarks - Items 2-9 as per particulars in the application
off owner/occupier
Registration, re-registration on transfer, renewal of the
Certificate of Registration of the above boiler is hereby
approved for a period from .......................... to........................
Signature of Chief Factory
Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting
Engineer
Date :
(Page 2)
PART - II   OWNERSHIP
1. Full name of the owner/occupier :-
2. Address of the owner/occupier :-
3. Address of premises where boiler is
installed :-
4. Name and address of the user :-
5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as
per last test report)
Signature of Signature of Chief Factory
 occupier Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting
Engineer
Date :                            Date :
1st Transfer
1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-
4. Name and address of user :-
5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as
per last test report)
Signature of Signature of Chief Factory
owner/occupier Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting
Engineer
Date :                            Date :
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
14A
(Page 3)
PART - II   OWNERSHIP
2nd Transfer
1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-
4. Name and address of the user :-
5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per last
test report)
Signature of Signature of Chief Factory
owner/occupier Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting
Engineer
Date :                                             Date :
3rd Transfer
1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-
4. Name and address of the user :-
5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per last
test report)
Signature of Signature of Chief Factory
owner/occupier Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting
Engineer
Date :                                           Date :
(Page 4)
PART - II    OWNERSHIP
4th Transfer
1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-
4. Name and address of user :-
5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per last
test report)
Signature of Signature of Chief Factory
owner/occupier Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting
Engineer
Date :           Date :
5th Transfer
1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-
3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-
4. Name and address of user :-
5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per last
test report)
Signature of Signature of Chief Factory
owner/occupier Inspecting Engineer/
District Factory Inspecting
Engineer
Date :                                              Date :
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
15A
(Regulation 10)
SCHEDULE   IV
STEAM   BOILER   MAINTENANCE    RECORD   BOOK
01. Name of manufacturer :-
02. Manufacturing Code :-
03. Year of manufacture :-
04. Type of steam boiler (e. g. water tube, fire tube, etc.)
05. Steaming capacity (per hour) :-
06. Manufacturer’s test pressure and the type of test etc. :-
07. Maximum permissible working pressure :-
08. Type of fuel used :-
09. Other relevant information
Authorization
by the
occupier
Period of
non-use and
reasons if the
period exceed
five (5)
months
Name of the
Boiler
attendent/
Class III, II, I
Name of the
authorized
officer/s
Type of tests/
internal and
external
examination/
cleaning and
repairs
Date of
completion
Type of
starting
Date of tests/internal
and
external examinations/
cleaning and repairs
10 - 491/2
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
16A
L.D.B 17/2014
FACTORIES   ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER  128)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105  read with Sections 34, 35,
36, 36A, 38 and 38A of the factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and approved by Parliament.
RA VINDARA S AMARAWEERA,
Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.
Colombo,
2019.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (issue of Certificate for Examination of Steam Boilers and
other Pressure Vessels) Regulations No. 3 of 2019.
2. (1) Any person who possesses the qualifications and experience specified in the Schedule I hereto shall be
eligible to apply for a certificate for the examination of any steam boiler or other pressure vessel (hereinafter in thesee
regulations referred to as the “Certificate”) as requried by the Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128).
(2) Any person who has already been issued with  a certificate for the examination of any steam boiler or other
pressure vessel shall within six months from the date of operation of these regulations, apply for a new certificate under
these regulations. Any Certificate is sued prior to coming into operation of these regulations shall be deemed to be
cancelled in the end of six months period from the date of operation of  these regulations.
3. Every application for the issue of a Certificate shall be made to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer in the
Form set out in Schedule II hereto and the fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto shall be made on the issue of such
Certificate.
4. On receipt of an application under regulation 3, the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer shall on behalf of the
Commissioner - General of Labour, summon the applicant thereof for an interview and if he is satisfied with the
qualifications and experience and such applicant, may issue a Certificate to such applicant in the Form substantially in
Schedule IV hereto.
5. (1) Any Certificate issued under regulation 4, shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of issue
of such Certificate and may on an application made by the holder of such Certificate one month prior to the expiration of such
certificate be renewed for further period of three years from the date of expiration of such Certificate.
(2) The preceding provisions relating to an application for a Certificate under these regulations shall mutatis
mutandis apply in respect of the application for renewal of such Certificate.
6. Any holder of a Certificate may apply to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer for the extension of the
certificate issued to him to any other type of a pressure vessel other than the type of the pressure vessel to which the
Certificate relates.
7. (1) Where the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer has refused to issue a Certificate or to renew such Certificate
or to grant an extension under these regulations, such refusal shall be communicated to the applicant within one month
from the date of such decision in writing with reasons therefore.
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
17A
(2) In the event where the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer has refused to issue a Certificate or to renew such
certificate or to grant an extension under these regulations, such applicant shall not be entitled to apply for such issuance,
renewal or extension of a Certificate until a twelve months period is lapsed from the date of such refusal.
8. Where proceedings are conducted under Subsection (12) of Section 34 of the Factories Ordinance (Chapter
128) against a holder of a Certificate or where the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer has required any holder of a Certificate,
a re-examination under Subsection (13) of Section 34 of the Factories Ordinance, the Certificate issued to such person
shall be deemed to be suspended until the completion of such proceedings or re-examination as the case may be.
9. In the event where any holder of a Certificate is convicted of any offence under the Factories Ordinance
(Chapter 128), a Certificate issued to such person under these regulations shall be deemed to be cancelled with effect
from the date of such conviction. Such person shall not be entitled to apply for a fresh Certificate under these regulations
until a period of seven years is lapsed from the date of such cancellation.
10. Any person who is a holder of a Certificate shall issue examination reports on relevant Forms issued by the
Department of Labour in triplicate and shall transmit the relevant copy of the Department to the Chief Factory Inspecting
Engineer or District Factory Inspecting Engineer within one month from the date of inspection.
11. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence under the
Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128).
12. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :
“Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Factories
Ordinance (Chapter 128) ;
“any other pressure vessel” includes and pressure vessel as specified in Section 35, 36, 36A and 38 of the
Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) ;
“steam boiler” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128).
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
18A
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE I
REQUIREMENTS   TO   OBTAIN   A   CERTIFICATE   FOR   THE   EXAMINATION   OF   STEAM   BOILERS
AND   OTHER   PRESSURE   VESSELS
01. The age limit of the applicant shall be between 28 years and 75 years.
02. Educational qualifications and the number of years of experience required
Number of years of experience required
in the relevant field
For steam For othe Pressure
boilers V essels
(a) Professionaly qualified Engineer* ; 2 years 2 years
or
(b) Graduate in Mechanical Engineering ; 5 years 3 years
or
(c) Persons who possess a valid Certificate 5 years 3 years
for the Examination of Steam Boilers
and other Pressure Vessels
* Professionally qualified Engineer means a Mechanical Engineer with corporate membership of the Institute of
Engineers of Sri Lanka, an Engineer with corporate membership of the Institution of Mechanical Engineering (London),
or any other institution recognized by Institution of Engineers of Sri Lanka incorporated under the Act, No. 17 of 1968.
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
19A
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE    II
APPLICATION   FOR   THE   ISSUE,   EXTENSION   OR   RENEWAL   OF   CERTIFICATE   OF
AUTHORIZATION   FOR   THE   EXAMINATION   OF   STEAM   BOILERS   AND   OTHER   PRESSURE
VESSLES
1. (a) Certificate applied for
(Steam Boilers and other Pressure Vessels/Steam Receivers/Air Receivers/Gas Receivers and Gas
holder only*)
(b) Whether applying for new certificate, renewal or extension for other types of Pressure Vessles.
02. Full Name of the Applicant :-
03. Business Address and Telephone No. :-
04. Private Address and Telephone No. :-
05. E-mail :-
06. Date of Birth :-
07 (a) Nationality :-
(b) National Identity Card Number :-
08. General Technical Education
(in chronological order)
Examinations passed with corresponding dates :-
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
09. Professional Qualifications :-
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
10. Applicant’s designation at place of employment if employed
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
20A
11. (a) Training undergone in the particular field for which certificate applied for :-
Give details
(b) Name and address of authorized officer or authority under whom the training was received :-
12. Experience in the field for which the certificate applied for :-
13. Does the applicant hold any certificate issued by the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer and if so the number
of the Certificate.
14. Area of operation opted for examination of Steam boilers and other Pressure Vessels if a Certificate is issued:-
15. Any other information :-
I certify that the foregoing particulars are  true and correct, I am aware that the Cerficate issued to me by the
Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer is subject to cancellation if the information given under this application were found to
be incorrect.
Signature of Applicant.
Date :
* Delete what is inapplicable.
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE   III
FEES   FOR   THE   CERTIFICATE,   RENEWAL   OF   CERTIFICATE   AND   EXTENTION   OF
CERTIFICATE   FOR   EXAMINATION   OF   STEAM   BOILERS   AND   OTHER   PRESSURE   VESSELS
For steam boilers For steam receivers/air
receivers/gas/receivers/
gas holders (each
pressure vessel)
Fee for the Certificate Rs. 5,000 Rs. 1,000
Fee for the renewal of Certificate Rs. 1,000 Rs. 1,000
Fee for the extension of Certificate Rs. 4,000 Rs. 1,000
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
21A
(Rgulation 4)
SCHEDULE   IV
CERTIFICATE   FOR   THE   EXAMINATION   OF   STEAM   BOILERS   AND   OTHER   PRESSURE VESSELS
UNDER   THE   FACTORIES   ORDINANCE   (CHAPTER 128)
Certificate No. : .....................................................
Mr. ................................................................................................................................. (NIC No.......................................)  of
address
................................................................................................................................................................................................ .
is appointed as an Authorized Officer to undertake the examination of under mentioned 1 pressure vessels under the
Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128).
1. Steam boiler (under section 34 of the Factories Ordinance)
2. Steam receiver (under section 35 of the Factories Ordinance)
3. Air receiver (under section 36 of the Factories Ordinance)
4. Gas receiver (under section 36A of the Factories Ordinance)
5. Gas holder (under section 38 of the Factories Ordinance)
This Certificate is vaild until......................................................
Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer,
Seal
Date :......................................................
10 - 491/3
1. Delete what is inapplicable
Note : It is an offence to make any unathorized alteration to the contents of this Certificate

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
22A
L.D.B 17/2014
FACTORIES   ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER   128)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105  read with Section 58A of
the Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and approved by Parliament.
RA VINDARA S AMARAWEERA,
Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.
Colombo.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (Protection of Workers from Excessive Noise) Regulations
No. 4 of 2019.
2. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupier of a factory to provide any person employed in such factory and
who is exposed to a sound pressure level of 85dB (A) or more measured with an integrating sound level meter (slow
response) with suitable ear protectors an the period of exposure of any person employed in a factory to noise and the
permitted sound pressure levels of such noise during such periods shall be as specified in the Schedule hereto.
Provided that the duration of measurement of any sound pressure level shall be lengthy enough for the resulting
noise exposure level to be representative of the activities performed by the employees. If there are significant variations
of noise level which the workers are exposed to, the sound pressure level of eight hours may be measured with the use of a
Noise Dosimeter :
Provided further, that no person employed in any factory at any time be exposed to any impact of noise or to peak
sound pressure level of 140 dB(A) or more.
3. Where any employee of a factory is subjeted to a sound pressure level exceeding the sound pressure levels as
specified in the Schedule hereto, the occupier of such factory shall adapt all or any of the following measures to maintain
such sound pressure level at the permitted sound pressure levels as are specified in the Schedule :-
(a) to reduce the sound pressure level at the source from which the sound emanates through engineering
controls by
(i) maintaining the machine in good condition, properly lubricated and replacing the worn or imbalanced
parts of the machine ;
(ii) mounting the machine on resilient mounts in order to reduce any vibration ;
(iii) using silencers or mufflers on the noisy parts of machines ;
(iv) shifting into a quiet process ;
(v) confining the sound of the machine to an acoustic enclosure ; and
(vi) isolating the operators of such machines in acoustic booths ;
(b) to carry out a programme of hearing conservation ;
(c) to adapt a feasible administrative control programme.
4. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
23A
5. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires
“noise” includes any sound automatically, mechanically or electrically produced ;
“feasible administrative control programme” means any programme to reduce the duration of time period within
which an employee is exposed to excessive noise ;
“dB(A)” means the unit of measure of sound pressure level ;
“equivalent sound pressure level” means the combined effect of the daily sound level exposure measured by an
integrated sound level meter ;
“an integrated sound level meter” means a sound  level meter which integrates and accumulates the total sound
energy over a measurement period and calculates in overage, presenting the results in decibels ;
“Noise Dosimeter” means an instrument which indicates the amount of sound energy absorbed in a given period
for an individual worker. Such Noise Dosimeter shall be in conformity with the following or equivalent
standards “IEC 61252, ANSI - SI. 25”
“hearing conservation” means to protect an employee exposed to excessive sound from suffering any deterioration
of hearing, through an effective and on-going hearing conservation programme which shall include periodic
audiometric tests on heaving of every employee exposed to noise and the Periodc Sound tests in the
working areas ;
“ear protector” means any suitable device including ear plugs or ear muffs to protect the ears from noise and to
obtain necessary attenuation of noise in respect of such device.
\
(Regulation 2 and 3)
Schedule
MAXIMUM   PREMISSIBLE   SOUND   PRESSURE   LEVELS
Duration per Equivalent Sound
day (in hours) pressure level dB(A) slow/TWA
88 5
48 8
29 1
19 4
1/2 97
1/4 100
Sound Level meters :
All noise levels (Sound pressure levels) shall be measured with integrated sound level meters of type 1 or type 2 of IEC
- 61672-1 (2002-05), IEC - 61672-2 (2003-4), BS EN 61252 : 1997, ANSI 1.25, 1991 (R2002) ANSI  1.4 1983 (R2001) or equivalent
standards with relevant calibration equipments.
10 - 491/4
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
24A
L.D.B 17/2014
FACTORIES   ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER  128)
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 read with Section 13 of the
Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and  approved by Parliament.
RA VINDARA S AMARAWEERA,
Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.
Colombo.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (General Standard of Lighting) Regulations No. 5 of 2019.
2.  It shall be the duty of any owner or occupier of any factory to secure and maintain sufficient and suitable
lighting in the factory or any part of thereof as may be required due to the nature of work carried out in any place of such
factory.
3. The owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to maintain in the areas of workplaces specified in Column I of the
Schedule hereto the levels of illuminance measured in the horizontal plane at a recommended level of one meter above the
floor, as specified in Column II in the Schedule hereto.
4. (1) The owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to maintain all glazed windows and skylights used for the
lighting of workplace, cleaned on both the inner and outer surfaces and free from obstruction from lighting.
(2) Nothing contained in this regulation shall effect the redecoration or shading of windows and skylights, and
reposition of workstations for the purpose of mitigating heat, glare or shadows in the workplace.
5. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupier of the factory
(a) where necessary, to provide local artificial lighting at individual work units or work stations and at
places of particular risks, in order to avoid dazzling, stroboscopic effect and annoying glare or causing
hazards including electrical, fire, radiation or collision hazards ;
(b) to ensure the positioning of light switches in a manner that they may be found and used easily and
without risk ;
(c) to cause the lights to be shaded and so placed as to remove shadows or direct or reflected shining
surfaces in the workplace causing eye strain.
6. The owner or occupier of the factory shall take necessary steps to provide suitable and sufficient emergency
lighting in any workplace of the factory in cirumstances where persons at work and others therein are specifically exposed
to danger in the event of failure of artificial lighting, and such emergency lighting shall be operative at all times. In such
circumstances level of illuminance at those places should not be less than 50 lux.
7. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.
8. The Regulations published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 14,577 of December 4, 1965 is hereby rescinded.
I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
25A
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Area of workplace Level of illuminance
(a) Stores 100 to 150 lux
(b) Rough work or heavy work (tasks with limited 150 to 300 lux
visual requirements)
(c) Factory including cubicles/rooms of office and 300 to 500 lux
Cashiers, kitchens, class rooms, dining rooms,
computer rooms
(d) Factory assembly lines, grinding, sewing, drilling 500 to 750 lux
enameling, machine work (tasks with normal visual
requirements)
(e) Instrument assembly lines, fine work 750 to 1000 lux
(f) Very fine work, Colour matching, fabric inspection 1000 to 2000 lux
Jewellry assembling and repairing (task with special
visual requirements)
(g) Micro - electronics, watch making etc. 2000 to 3000 lux
(Prolong tasks that require precision)
10 - 491/5
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.