PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MATERNITY  BENEFITS  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  15  OF  2018
 Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 18th of June, 2018]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2018
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1Maternity Benefits (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 2018
Short title.
[Certified on 18th of June, 2018]
L.D.—O. 23/2015.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE MATERNITY BENEFITS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 140)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Maternity Benefits
(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2018.
2. Section 3 of the Maternity Benefits Ordinance
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended by the repealed of subsection (1) of that section
and substitution therefor, of the following subsection:—
“(1) The period for which any woman worker shall
be entitled to the payment of maternity benefits shall
be—
(a) twelve weeks, that is to say two weeks up
to and including the day of her confinement
and ten weeks immediately following  that
day, if the confinement results in the issue
of a live child; and
(b) six weeks, that is to say two weeks up to
and including the day of her confinement
and four weeks immediately following that
day, if the confinement does not result in
the issue of a live child:
Provided however, that where such woman worker
has worked in her employment for any number of days
during the aforesaid period of two weeks referred to in
paragraphs ( a) and ( b) she shall be entitled to the
Amendment of
section 3 of
Chapter 140.
2 Maternity Benefits (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 2018
payment of maternity benefits for such number of days
immediately after her confinement commencing from
the day immediately after the date on which the
aforesaid period of ten weeks or four weeks as the case
may be, ends.”.
3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the substitution therefor, of the following section:—
5. (1) The employer of a woman worker shall
pay to such woman worker maternity benefits
at the prescribed rate—
(a) for the entirety of the period of two
weeks immediately preceding the
confinement and of the period of ten
weeks immediately following her
confinement if such confinement results
in the issue of a live child; and
(b) for the entirety of the period of two
weeks immediately preceding the
confinement and of the period of four
weeks immediately following her
confinement, if  the confinement does
not result in the issue of a live child:
Provided however, where such woman
worker has worked in her employment on any
number of days during the aforesaid period of
two weeks referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b),
she shall be entitled to maternity benefits for
such number of days after her confinement.
(2) The periods in respect of which
payments of maternity benefits shall be made
under this section shall be in addition to any
holiday or leave to which she is entitled.”.
Replacement of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
“Liablity of
employer
and rate of
maternity
benefits.
3Maternity Benefits (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 2018
4. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the substitution therefor, of the following section:—
6. Nothing in the provisions of section 5
shall be deemed to entitle any woman worker
to claim the maternity benefits referred to in
this Ordinance from more than one employer
in respect of the same confinement.”.
5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
substitution therefor, of the following subsection:—
“(2) A woman worker who has been confined
shall, within one week of her confinement give
notice to her employer of the date on which she
was confined and for the purpose of ascertaining
the number of days, she will be permitted to
absent herself from the employment specify
whether the confinement resulted in the issue of
a live child or not;”;and
(2) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section and
the substitution therefor, of the following
subsection:—
“(4) The employer shall on receipt of the
notice from a woman worker under subsection
(1) or subsection (2), permit that woman worker
to absent herself from employment—
(a) for two weeks immediately
preceding, and ten weeks
immediately following her
“Woman
worker not to
claim
benefits, in
respect of the
same
confinement,
from more
than one
employer.
Replacement of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.
4 Maternity Benefits (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 2018
confinement if the confinement
results in the issue of a live child;
and
(b) for two weeks immediately
preceding and four weeks
immediately following her
confinement, if the confinement
does not result in the issue of a
live child:
Provided however, that where such woman
worker has worked in her employment for any
number of days during the aforesaid period of
two weeks referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b),
she shall be permitted to absent herself from
employment for such number of   days after her
confinement commencing from the day
immediately after the date on which the aforesaid
period of ten weeks or four weeks, as the case
may be end.”;
(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (4) of
that section of the following new subsection:—
“(5) The leave to which a woman worker is
entitled under this Act in consequence of any
confinement shall be in addition to any holiday
or leave to which she is entitled under any other
law or regulation.”.
6. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended,
by the substitution for the words “notice of her confinement to
her employer under section 7(2)” of the following words:—
“notice of her confinement to her employer under
section 7(2):
Provided however, that for the purpose of
ascertaining the period for which such woman
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.
5Maternity Benefits (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 2018
`
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
worker is entitled to the payment of maternity
benefit, she shall inform her employer of whether or
not her confinement resulted in the issue of a live
child or not.”.
7. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “depriving her of any maternity benefit or
alternative maternity benefits to which”, of the words,
“depriving her of any maternity benefits to which”.
8. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraph (f) thereof.
9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
.
Amendment of
section 11 of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 15 of
the principal
enactment.
6 Maternity Benefits (Amendment)
Act, No. 15 of 2018
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.