97
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN
(SPECIAL  PROVISIONS )
AN ACT  TO MAKE  SPECIAL  PROVISIONS  IN  RESPECT  OF  THE
TERMINATION  OF  THE  SERVICES  OF  WORKMEN  IN  CERTAIN
EMPLOYMENTS  BY  THEIR  EMPLOYERS
[21st May, 1971]
 1.   This Act may be cited as  the  Termination  of  Employment  of  Workmen  (Special
Provisions) Act,  No.45 of 1971.
 2.   (1)  No employer shall terminate the scheduled employment of any workman without -
(a) the prior consent in writing of the workman; or
(b) the prior written approval of the Commissioner.
    (2)  The following provisions shall apply in the case of the exercise of the powers conferred
on the Commissioner to grant or refuse his approval to an employer to terminate the scheduled
employment of any workman:-
(a) such approval may be granted or refused on application in that behalf made by
such employer; a copy of which application shall be served on the workman
concerned, who shall be afforded an opportunity of being heard,
(b) the Commissioner may, in his absolute discretion, decide to grant or refuse such
approval;
(c) the Commissioner shall grant or refuse such approval within three months from
the date of receipt of an application in that behalf made by such employer;
(d) the Commissioner shall give notice in writing of his decision on the application
to both the employer and the workman;
(e) the Commissioner may, in his absolute discretion, decide the terms and conditions
subject to which his approval should be granted, including any particular terms
and conditions relating to the payment by such employer to the workman of a
gratuity or compensation for the termination of such employment; and
(f) any decision made by the Commissioner under the preceding  provisions  of
this subsections shall be final and conclusive, and shall not be called in question
whether by way of writ or otherwise -
(i) in any court, or
(ii) in any court, tribunal or other institution established under the Industrial
Disputes Act.
     (2A).  It shall be the duty of the Commissioner or receipt of an application under subsection
(2), to call upon the workmen concerned within three days of the receipt of such application, by the
Commissioner, to submit his response to such application within seven days of the receipt of the
same by such workmen:
Provided however, that where the workman fails to respond within the above period, the
Commissioner may grant a further period not exceeding seven days, upon his being satisfied that
such failure was due to circumstances beyond the control of such workmen.
Act
    No. 45 of  1971.
Law
     No. 4 of 1976.
Act
    No. 51 of 1988.
    No. 12 of 2003.
    No. 20 of 2008.
Short title.
Regulation of
the termination by
employers of the
scheduled
employments of
workmen.
[§ 2, Law 4 of 1976.]
[§ 2, 12 of 2003.]
[§ 2, 12 of 2003.]
98
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
 (3)  Any person who fails to comply with any decision made by the Commissioner under
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be
liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
 (4)  For the purposes of this Act, the scheduled employment of any workman shall be
deemed to be terminated by his employer if for any reason whatsoever, otherwise than by reason of
a punishment imposed by way of disciplinary action, the services of such workman in such employment
are  terminated  by  his  employer,  and  such  termination shall be deemed to include -
(a) non-employment of the workman in such employment by his employer, whether
temporarily or permanently, or
(b) non-employment of the workman in such employment in consequence of the
closure by his employer of any trade, industry or business.
    (5)  Where any employer  terminates  the  scheduled  employment  of  any  workman  by
reason of punishment imposed by way of disciplinary action the employer shall notify such workman
in writing the reasons for the termination of employment before the expiry of the second working day
after the date of such termination.
3.   (1)  The provisions of this Act, other than this section, shall not apply -
(a) to an employer by  whom  less  than  fifteen  workmen on  an average  have been
employed during the period  of  six  months  preceding  the   month  in  which  the
employer seeks to terminate the employment of a workman;or
(b) to the termination of employment of any workman who has been employed by
an employer for a period of less than one hundred and eighty days inclusive of-
(i) every day of absence on any ground approved by the employer;
(ii) every day of absence due to any injury to the workman caused by an
accident arising out of, and in the course of his employment;
(iii) every day of absence due to anthrax or any occupational disease speci-
fied in Schedule III of the Workman’s Compensation Ordinance (Chapter
139);
(iv) every day on which the employer fails to provide work for the workman;
(v) every day of absence due to a lockout, or strike that is not illegal, if such
days do not in the aggregate exceed thirty days; and
(vi) every holiday or day of absence from work to which a workman is enti-
tled, by or under, the provisions of any written law,
in the continuous period of twelve months commencing from the date of employment if such termina-
tion takes place within that period of twelve months; or
(c) to the termination of employment of any workman who has been  employed  by
an employer where such termination was effected by way of retirement in ac-
cordance with the provisions of -
(i) any collective agreement in force at the time of such retirement; and
(ii) any contract of employment wherein the age of retirement of such work-
man is expressly stipulated; or
(d) to the Government in its capacity as an employer; or
(e) to the Local Government Service Commission in its capacity as an employer ; or
(f) to any local authority in its capacity as an employer; or
[§  2, 51 of 1988.]
The provisions of
this Act, other
than this section,
not to apply in
certain cases or
circumstances.
[§ 3, 51 of 1988.]
[§ 3, Law 4 of 1976.]
[§ 2, Law 4 of 1976.]
99
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
(g) to any co-operative society in its capacity as an employer; or
(h) to any public corporation in its capacity as an employer; or
(i) to the termination of employment of any workman who has been employed by
an employer in contravention of the provisions of any law for the time being in
force.
    (2)  The other provisions of this Act shall be read and construed subject to the provisions
of subsection (l), and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the preceding provisions
of this subsection, the terms “employer”, “employers”, “workman” and “workmen” occurring in such
other provisions shall be so read and construed.
4.   The provisions of Part IVB of the  Industrial  Disputes Act  shall  not  apply  to   any
workman within the meaning of this Act.
5.   Where  an  employer  terminates  the  scheduled  employment   of   a   workman   in
contravention of the provisions of this Act, such  termination  shall  be  illegal,  null  and void, and
accordingly shall be of no effect whatsoever.
6.  Where  an  employer  terminates   the   scheduled  employment  of  a  workman   in
contravention of  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the  Commissioner  may  order  such  employer to
continue to employ the workman, with effect  from  a  date  specified  in  such order, in the same
capacity in which the workman was employed prior  to  such  termination, and to pay the workman his
wages  and  all  other  benefits  which  the  workman would have otherwise received if his services had
not been  so  terminated;  and  it  shall   be  the  duty   of   the  employer  to  comply   with   such    order.
The  Commissioner shall cause notice of such order to be served on both such employer and the
workman.
   6A. Where the scheduled employment of any workman  is  terminated  in  contravention of
the provisions of this Act in consequence of  the closure by  his  employer  of  any trade, industry or
business, the Commissioner may  order  such  employer  to pay  to  such workman on or before a
specified date any sum of money as compensation as an  alternative to the reinstatement  of  such
workman  and  any  gratuity  or  any  other  benefit payable to such workman by such employer.
 * 6B.(1)  No order shall be made  by  the  Commissioner  under  section  6  or  section  6A  in
pursuance of  an application made by a workman unless such application  was  made  within
six months of the termination to which such application related.
(2)  Noting in this Act shall be read and construed as effecting section 2 or section 5 of this
Act or the rights of a workman whose employment has been terminated to apply for any other legal
remedy in respect of such termination or as effecting the jurisdiction of any court, tribunal or institu-
tion to grant relief in respect of such termination.
6C. Where the Commissioner orders any sum of money to be paid  to a workman under
section 6 or section 6A of this Act, the Magistrate’s Court having  jurisdiction in the area where such
workman is or was employed by his employer shall, if satisfied on the written petition of such
workman that payment of such money has not been made within  the time specified in that behalf  by
the Commissioner, make order that amount of such money shall be paid by such employer to such
Par IVB of the
Industrial Disputes
Act not to apply
to any workman.
Termination of
scheduled
employment of   a
workman in
contravention of
this Act to be
null  and void.
Power of
Commissioner
to issue orders
and duty of
employers to
comply with
such orders.
Provisions
relating to
termination  of
shceduled
employment by
closure of any trade,
industry or business.
[§ 4, Law 4 of 1976.]
No order to be
made  after  six
months of making
the applicaton
and rights of
workman to seek
other legal remedy.
[§ 4, 51 of 1988.]
[§ 2, 20 of 2008.]
Magistrate to make
order where money has
not been paid on an
order made under
section 6 or 6A.
[§ 3, 20 of 2008.]
  * subsecion (2) of 6A is repealed by Act, No. 12 of 2003.
[§ 3, Law 4 of 1976.]
100
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
workman and that such amount if not paid in compliance with the order, be recovered in like manner
as a fine imposed by the Court, and the amount so recovered shall be paid to such workman
6D. Any sum of money to be paid as compensation to a workman on decision or order made
by the Commissioner under this Act, shall be computed in accordance with such formula as shall be
determined by the Commissioner, in consultation with the Minister, by Order published in the
Gazette.
7.   (1)  Where an employer fails to comply with an order made  under  section  6  or  section
6A such employer shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall be liable  on  conviction  after
summary  trial  before  a  Magistrate  to  imprisonment   of   either  description for a term of not less than
six months and not exceeding two years.
      (2)  In any prosecution for an offence under subsection (1),  the  burden  of  proving  that
the employer has complied with an order made under section 6 or section 6A shall lie on the accused.
 8 .  (1)   On the conviction of an employer for an offence under section  7  in  respect  of  any
workman, such employer shall be liable -
 (a) to pay, in addition to any punishment that may be imposed on such employer
under that section, a fine of fifty rupees for each day on which the failure is
continued after conviction thereof; and
(b)      (i) to pay the workman, in any case where the offence relates  to  non-
compliance with an order made under section 6, the wages and benefits
specified in that order and wages and benefits which would have been
payable to him, if he had been in employment for the period commencing
on the date specified in the order made under section 6 and ending on the
date of conviction of such employer; or
(ii) to pay the workman, in any case where the offence relates to non-com-
pliance with an order made under section 6A, the sum of money specified
in such order.
     (2)  Any sum which an employer is liable to pay under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) may
be recovered on the order of the court by which the employer was convicted as if it were a fine
imposed on him by that court, and the amount recovered shall be paid to the workman.
9. Where any offence under this Act is committed by a body of persons, then, -
(a) if the body of persons is a body corporate, every director and officer of  that
body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence;
(b) if he body of persons is a firm, every partner of the firm shall be deemed to be
guilty of that offence;
(c) if body of persons is a trade union, every officer of that union shall be deemed
to be guilty of that offence; and
(d) if the body of persons is a body, unincorporate other than a firm or a trade
union, the president, manager, secretary and every officer of that body shall
each be deemed to be guilty of that offence:
Provided, however, that no such person shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence under this
Act if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due
diligence to prevent the commission of that offence.
10.   Where a person (hereinafter in this section referred to as “the  accused”)  is  charged
with an offence under this Act, the accused shall, upon complaint duly made by him  in accordance
with the provisions of section  136  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code  and on giving to the prosecution
not less than three days’ notice of his  intention,  be  entitled, subject to the provisions of Chapter  XV
of  that  Code  to  have  any  other  person whom he charges as the  actual  offender, brought  before
Additional
punishment for
an offence
under section 7.
[§ 6,51 of 1988.]
Special provisions
in respect of
offences committed
by bodies of
persons.
Special  defence
open  to  a person
charged with
an offence under
 this Act.
Failure  to  comply
with the provisions
of section 6 to be
an offence.
[§ 4,20 of 2008.]
[§ 4,20 of 2008.]
Computation of any
compensation payable.
[§ 5, 12 of 2003.]
101
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
the  court;  and  if,  after the commission of  the  offence  has  been  proved,  the  accused  proves  to
the  satisfaction of the court, that he has used due diligence to enforce the  provisions  of  this Act and
that such other person has committed the offence without his knowledge, consent or connivance,
such other person shall be convicted of the offence and the accused shall be acquitted of the offence.
11.  (1)  The Commissioner shall be in charge of the general administration of this Act.
       (2)   The Commissioner may delegate to any officer of the Labour Department any power,
function or duty conferred or imposed on him under this Act.
12.   (1)  The Commissioner shall have power -
(a) to enter and inspect at all reasonable hours of the day or night any place in
which workmen are employed in scheduled employments for the purpose of
examining any register or record of wages, or of ascertaining whether the provi-
sions of this Act are being complied with; or
(b) where any such record or register is not available for examination when he is
inspecting such place, to require the production of such register or record on a
specified later date for examination at such place or at the office of the Commis-
sioner; or
(c) to take copies of the whole or any part of any such register or record;
(d) to interrogate any person whom he finds in such place and whom the Commis-
sioner has reasonable cause to believe is an employer or a workman engaged or
employed in any scheduled employment carried on in such place, or is an
employer or a workman in the establishment or institution in such place; or
(e) to hold such inquiries as he may consider necessary for the purposes of this
Act.
    (2)  The Commissioner shall, for the purposes of  any  inquiry under this Act, have all the
powers of  a  District Court -
(a) to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses;
(b) to compel the production of documents; and
(c) to administer any oath or affirmation to witnesses.
13.   (1)   The  Commissioner  may  direct  any  employer  to  furnish  to  him  before   a   date
specified in the direction -
(a) a return relating to all his employees or any class or description of such employees
as may be so specified and containing such particulars as the Commissioner
may require for the purposes of this Act; or
(b) such information or explanations as the Commissioner may require in respect of
any particulars stated in any return furnished by such employer; or
(c) a true copy of the whole or any part of any register or record maintained by such
employer.
     (2)  A direction under subsection (1) may be given to any employer by notice in writing
served on him.
14.  Every person who -
 (a) fails to furnish the means required by the Commissioner as necessary for any
entry or inspection under this Act, or the exercise of his powers under section
12; or
Powers of
Commissioner to
call for returns, &c.
General offences
under this Act.
Administration
of this Act
vested in the
Commissioner.
Powers of inspection
& c. of  the
Comissioner.
102
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
(b) hinders or molests the Commissioner in the exercise of the powers conferred by
section 12; or
(c) refuses to produce any register or record of wages, or give any information
which the Commissioner requires him to produce or give under the powers
conferred by section 12; or
(d) makes or causes to be made any register or record of wages which is false in any
material particular, or produces or causes or knowingly allows to be produced
any such register or record to the Commissioner acting under the powers
conferred by section 12, knowing the same to be false; or
(e) furnishes any information to the Commissioner acting under the powers
conferred by section 12, knowing the same to be false; or
(f)      (i) fails without cause, which in the  opinion of  the Commissioner  is  reason
able, to appear before the Commissioner at the time and place mentioned
in any summons issued under subsection (2) of section 12 of this Act; or
(ii) refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinion of  the  Commissioner
is reasonable, to produce and show to the Commissioner any document
or other thing which is in his possession or power and which is in the
opinion of the Commissioner necessary for arriving at the truth of the
matters being inquired into by the Commissioner; or
(iii) refuses to be affirmed or sworn as a witness before the Commissioner; or
(g) makes default in complying with any direction given by the Commissioner under
section 13, or who, when called upon to furnish a return under the said section
13, knowingly makes or furnishes, or causes to be made or furnished, a false
return or  a return containing any false statement,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction thereof after summary trial before a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for
a term not exceeding six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
15.  All offences under this Act shall be triable summarily before a Magistrate.
*17.  The proceedings at any inquiry held by the Commissioner for  the  purposes  of  this Act
may be conducted by the Commissioner in  any  manner,  not  inconsistent  with the principles of
natural justice, which to the Commissioner may seem  best  adapted to elicit proof or information
concerning matters that arise at such inquiry.
17A.  In any proceedings at any inquiry held by the  Commissioner,  the  employer  or  the
workman may be represented by an officer of a trade union of which  such  employer  or workman is
a member.
17B.  (1) Where any person -
(a) insults or intimidates the Commissioner during the progress of any  inquiry
conducted by such Commissioner;
(b) interferes with the lawful process of such Commissioner,
[§ 5, Law 4 of  1976.]
Offences under
this Act to be
triable summarily
before a  Magistrate.
Conduct of
proceedings of
inquiries held by
Commissioner
for the purposes
of  this Act.
Appearance
before the
Commissioner.
[§ 7,Law 4 or 1976.]
Offence  of  contempt
against or in
disrespect of  the
Commissioner.
[§ 7,Law 4  of 1976.]
*  Section 16 is repealed by Law, No.4 of 1976.
103
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
such person shall be deemed to commit the offence of contempt against or in disrespect of the
authority of such Commissioner.
     (2)  Every offence of contempt committed against or in disrespect of the authority of such
Commissioner shall be punishable by the Court of Appeal under Article 105 (3) of the Constitution.
   (3)  Every complaint of contempt committed against or in disrespect of the authority of
such Commissioner shall be communicated to the Court of Appeal by letter signed by such
Commissioner.
   (4)  The Court Appeal may, upon receiving a communication referred to in subsection (3),
take cognizance of and try in a summary manner such offence of contempt committed against or in
disrespect of the authority of such Commissioner.
    (5)  In any proceedings against any person for the offence of contempt committed against
or in disrespect of the authority of such Commissioner, such Commissioner shall not be liable to be
summoned as a witness by the first mentioned person but the Court of Appeal  may, if it considers it
necessary to do so, examine such Commissioner.
18.   Any notice which is required by this Act to be served on, or given to, any person shall,
if it is not served on, or given personally to, such person, be deemed to have been duly served or
given -
(a) if it is left at the usual or last known place of abode or business of such person;
or
(b) if it is sent to him by post in a registered letter addressed to the usual or last
known place of abode or of business of such person.
19.   In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
 “collective agreement” has the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act;
“Commissioner” means the person for the time being holding the office of the Commissioner
of Labour;
“co-operative society” means a co-operative society registered as such under the Co-
operative Societies Law;
“employer” means any person who employs, or on whose behalf any other person employs,
any workman and includes a body of employers (whether such body is a firm, company,
corporation, trade union or other body unincoporate), and any person who on behalf of
any other person employs any workman, but does not include any such other person or
such body to whom, by virtue of the operation of the provisions of subsection (1) of
section 3, the provisions of this Act, other than section 3, do not apply;
“local authority” includes any Municipal Council, Urban Council, †Town Council or
†Village Council;
“Local Government Service Commission” means the Local Government Service Commis-
sion established under the Local Government Service Act, No.18 of 1969.
“public corporation” means any corporation, board or  other  body  which  was  or  is
established by or under any written law, other than the Companies Ordinance, * with
capital wholly or partly provided by the Government by way of grant, loan or other
form;
Interpretation.
[§ 8, Law 4  of 1976.]
[§ 8, Law 4 of 1976.]
.
† See Pradeshiya Sebhas Act, No. 15 of 1987 which repealed and replaced both the Town Councils Ordinance
   and the Village Councils Ordinance.
* Repealed by Companies Act, No.17 of 1982. Act, No. 17 of 1982 repealed by Act, No. 7 of 2007.
Service of
Notice.
104
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
“scheduled employment” means employment in -
(a) any trade, in respect of which a notification has been published in the Gazette
under subsection (2) of section 6 of the Wages Boards Ordinance of an order
made under subsection (1) of that section and shall include the work of any
worker referred to therein but excluded from the provisions of such order;
(b) every shop and every office within the meaning of the Shop and Office Employees
(Regulation of Employment and Remuneration) Act; or
(c) every factory within the meaning of the Factories Ordinance;
“trade  union”  means  any   trade  union    (whether  of  employer  or  of  workman)
registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance;
“worker” has the same meaning as in the Wages Boards Ordinance;
“workman” has the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispute Act, but does not
include a workman to whom, by virtue of the operation of the provisions of
subsection (1) of section 3, the provisions of this Act, other than section 3, do
not apply.
20.  In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and  the
provisions of any other written law, the provisions of this  Act shall prevail over  the provisions of
such other written law.
21.  The provisions of this Act  shall  be deemed  to  have  come  into  operation  on  May 21,
1971.
Date of
operation of  Act.
[§ 9, Law 4 of 1976.]
[§ 8, Law 4 of 1976.]
[§ 8, Law 4 of 1976.]
The provistions
of this Act
to prevail over
other written law.
105
TERMINATION  OF  EMPLOYMENT  OF  WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT, NO. 45 OF 1971
Order under Section 6 D
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by section 6D of the Termination of Employment of
Workmen (Special Provisions) Act, No. 45 of 1971 as amended by Act, No. 12 of 2003, I Mahinda
Madihahewa, Commissioner of Labour, in consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Labour Relations and Foreign Employment, do hereby set out in the Schedule hereto, the formula to
be followed for the computation of compensation to be paid to a workman.
The Order published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1321/17 dated 31st December, 2003 is
hereby resc inded.
MAHINDA M ADIHAHEWA.
                Commissioner of Labour.
Colombo,
15th March, 2005.
SCHEDULE
FORMULA FOR PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION
Column I Column II Column III
Number of  Year(s) of service Number of Months Salary to Maximum Compensation
Completed at the Date of be paid as Compensation for (Cumulative)
Termination each Year of Service
1 to 5 2.5 12.5 months
6 to 14 2.0 30.5 months
15 to 19 1.5 38.0 months
20 to 24 1.0 43.0 months
25 to 34 0.5 48.0 months
Note.- (I) However, if at the time of the termination of his services a workman has less than Four
years left of his services, he shall be paid either the aggregate salary for the period of
denied service or compensation computed according to the above Formula, whichever is
less, and if the period of denied service is more than four years, compensation shall be
computed according to the above formula.
(2) No amount in excess of Rupees One Million Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand shall be
paid to any workman as compensation computed according to the above formula.
In this Order :-
“Salary” means the basic salary or wages plus cost of  living allowance or any other similar allowance
; and
“Year” means a completed period of  twelve months and in relation to the first year in employment,
includes One Hundred and Eighty days of service.
[The  Gazette  of the
Democratic
Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka
Extraordinary No.
1384/07 -Tuesday,
March 15, 2005.]
L.D.B 8/2003